Our art service is now looking pretty good.
We've got all the custom air handling middleware routes.
It's all coming together.
But you might recall that when we first started this project, I had mentioned that we were going to
really put a good focus on testing.
And at this point, we have not done any automated testing.
We have done testing using Postman, but no automated tests.
So naturally we're going to start to fix that up inside the section.
We're going to first begin with a quick overview of how we handle testing in a microservices type environment.
The first big thing that we need to understand is that testing with microservices is really a big question
of what the scope of our tests are going to be.
So we're going to write out some code that is going to test our app in an automated fashion, and we
need to decide exactly what we are trying to test.
There's a wide variety or a wide spectrum of different things we can try to test inside of one single
test.
The list I have right here of four different things is by no means an exhaustive list.
I just want to point out that there are many different things we can try to test inside of a single
test go.
So we might first decide at the most basic level to test a single piece of code in isolation.
And so an example of that would be something like a middleware.
This would be a very traditional style of test, something you might refer to as a unit test.
The next level of complexity or the next kind of larger piece of scope would be to test how different
pieces of code work together.
An example of that would be maybe if we tried to simulate a request flowing through some different middleware
together and then eventually off to a route handler.
Now, as I go through these two notes right here, it might make a little bit more sense to kind of
visualize this.
So I put together a little diagram of more or less what our application looks like right now and some
parts to represent what it might look like in the future as well.
So we do not yet have an orders ticketing or payment service, but we will at some point.
So this first piece of scope right here would be if we were just trying to test one single piece of
code that might be like if we wrote out a test to just take a look at the required middleware and figure
out whether or not that thing is working correctly.
The next larger piece of scope would be to test multiple pieces of code working together.
And so that'd be kind of like if we had a request coming in and had it flow through the require auth
middleware and then up to some sign up root handler.
Now in this case, we're not going to ever wire up, require auth and sign up together.
I just mean to suggest that we could have a test that spans across different pieces of code.
The next larger piece of scope would be to test how multiple components work together.
Now I want to use the term component here.
I'm not referring to React.
I'm talking about different programs that we are running inside of our app.
So for example, that would be if we were trying to test how our service interacts with MongoDB or how
our service interacts with the event bus.
And then finally, the largest piece of scope, the largest thing we can really test in one go would
be to test how different services work together.
So, for example, we might try to launch our order service and the ticketing service at the exact same
time and then have one emit some kind of event and then expect it to be received by the other service
and for it to be processed in some very particular way.
So again, we really need to think about the scope of every test that we start to write out.
Now, of course, when we start to look at this list, you might say, or trend towards this item down
here at the bottom, you might say, Oh yeah, let's just test how all these different services work
together, because that kind of simulates reality.
Well, that might make a lot of sense when we say it.
We might want want to write tests like that.
But unfortunately, the reality is that writing tests like this is very, very complicated inside of
a microservices environment.
If we want to test how the order service and the ticketing service interact with each other, we need
to think about how to construct some kind of environment quickly and cost effectively to actually test
this stuff.
So, I mean, at a very practical level, how would we do that?
Would we launch some kind of test, Kubernetes cluster and then launch the order service and ticketing
service inside there?
How would we somehow issue requests to these things?
How would we somehow assert the result of any request we make?
It's just a very complicated thing that starts to get really challenging when we start to figure out
or try to figure out how multiple services work together.
So with that in mind, we are not going to focus too much on how we can test different services working
together.
Instead, we're going to try to test these different services, more or less in isolation.
So let's take a pause right here.
When we come back.
The next video I'm going to show you the different kinds of tests that you and I are going to focus
on writing inside of our different projects.